- [Instructor] We've already looked a little
at Maven reporting through the use of Maven sites,
but I want to talk a little bit more about
the value proposition of these documentation tools.
In today's world we have many different ways
to document our work as developers.
So you may be asking why we need to use
yet another documentation tool?
One of the primary reasons are that Maven sites
provide build specific documentation.
In addition, because the documentation is part
of the build process,
when using Maven sites it can be automated.
And maybe even more important yet,
because of the automation and the actual reporting
on the code base itself,
Maven sites never become stale.
In fact, because it lives with your code,
its opportunity to become stale is much smaller.
And finally, because you can define the site details
in the Parent POM,
you can control the deployment process.
Maven sites allow for consistent behavior
across all of your teams with respect to documentation,
which will make it easier to read
because everything across your organization
becomes ubiquitous.
So you want to start building sites,
where do you start?
We've seen and used the Maven site command already,
but because it is a natural fit with other Maven commands
your build tools can just build the site as part
of the standard build.
By doing this we can automate the build in documentation.
And much like we have seen deploying build artifacts,
we can deploy Maven sites through a plugin goal,
Site Deploy.
And all of this can be scripted to be included
in every single build,
making uniform behavior as easy for documentation
as it is for code.
Deploying the site is relatively easy.
Out of the box, Maven Three supports
File, HTTP, and HTTPS protocols for transporting the site.
Because it is HTML,
the easiest mechanism I have found is to push
the documentation to a structured Apache web server
or an HTTPD server.
Now if you want a little bit more secure way
to transport your site, and you should,
you can use configurable wagons to move code.
I used to use webdev in the past,
but today I use SSH, and more specifically SCP,
to move the files from my build system
to the site web server itself.